# Vitek Antimicrobial Data Project

The PHE Microbiology laboratory in Bristol, UK was an early adopter of automated antimicrobial sensitivity testing. For almost 10 years they have been using a platform Biomerieux Vitek. Using an adapted broth dilution method, the Vitek determines a bacterial isolates mean inhibitory concentration (MIC) for a range of antibiotics, and the uses a suite of software called the "Advanced Expert System" to compare the MIC profile to that of known phenotypes. The Vitek can then determine the sensitivity status of that bacterial isolate for each antibiotic, as well as identifying certain resistance mechanisms that might be present.

The reports from the Vitek platform have been regularly archived onto CD-ROMs at the lab in Bristol, and they have accumulated almost 10 years of data. The isolate report information is contained in XML files that can be interpreted by the Vitek software. The intention of this project is to extract the data housed in these XML files, and populate a noSQL database that can be accessed via a web application. The broader intention being an application that medical and research professionals can access to acquire either summary information about the changes in MIC values over time, or large datasets for research purposes. The web application will allow the user to search the Vitek dataset by organism name, drug name, drug family, phenotype, or date.

## Content description
- Extracting the Vitek Data.ipynb -- this is a Jupyter Notebook that goes over my strategy for acquire data from the XML files and building the tree data structures for each report
- BuildVitekDatabase.py -- python script for building report objects and adding reports to database using the Vitek archive CD-ROMS. To use, insert CD-ROM into CD-Drive, and then from command line run `python3 BuildVitekDatabase.py -dbname DATABASE_NAME -dir_path CD-ROM_DIRECTORY_PATHNAME` ommiting `DATABASE_NAME` for the target mongo database name, and `CD-ROM_DIRECTORY_PATHNAME` for the path of the target CD-ROM
